The V60 dripper was made by Hario, a japanese company founded in 1921 at Kanda Sudacho, Tokyo producing and selling laboratory glassware. The name for V60 comes from vector 60, the 60 degree angle of its cone. V60 can be made from ceramic, glass, plastic, or metal.

## History

In 1980, the Mini Coffee Dripper was created following various experiments in search of a simpler way to reproduce the cloth drip coffee painstakingly poured by master baristas of the time.
The prototype of the V60 conical dripper used to try extracting coffee was made with a funnel and filter paper that were in the company's glass testing room and used steel wires to hold the paper.

## Usage

With this dripper, feel free to play! As long as you follow the basic steps, you can choose any combination you want.

### To Prepare:

1. Boil high-quality water until it’s between 90º to 96ºC (if you don’t have a thermometer, wait 30-45 seconds).
2. Fold the filter (bleached or natural) along the seams.
3. Rinse the filter thoroughly, taking particular care if it’s a natural filter. Rinsing helps to not only remove the papery taste but also heat the V60 and the server. If they aren’t heated, the water’s temperature will dramatically decrease and the coffee won’t be properly extracted.
4. Grind your fresh coffee beans, and you’re ready to go.

### To Pour:

Due to the V60’s cone shape, you really need a gooseneck kettle. Otherwise, it’s difficult to pour in circles, which is important for controlling the water flow (which, as mentioned above, is very important).

Start by pouring double the amount of water as there is coffee in your V60, and then let it bloom. This is always my favorite part because you can see how fresh your grounds are. After waiting for 30-45 seconds, start pouring in circles. Your grind size and water flow will affect the pour time, but ideally it should take between 2 to 4 minutes.

### Brewing Tips

* The V60 won’t get clogged unless you use a very fine grind size. Water flows quickly, so you can go finer than you might be able to with other drippers.
* Since the V60 comes in 4 different materials, take into account the material you will be preheating. It takes longer to heat the ceramic model than the stainless steel, glass, plastic or copper editions.
* Pour counter-clockwise. This will create more turbulence in the coffee bed which will cause better extraction.

_Sources: [Hario](https://global.hario.com/about_us.html), [Perfect Daily Grind](https://perfectdailygrind.com/2015/07/hario-v60-the-history-brewing-guide/)._
